---
title: Part 1&#58; It's a Virtual World
layout: post
date: 2015-01-17
---
<p class="intro"><span class="dropcap">T</span>he landscape of virtualization products is extremely diverse. From the heavy hitters like VMware and Microsoft to the up and coming solutions such as Docker and LXD.  It's easy to see how this industry has taken off with our ever growing need for more. I think it's a great time to be interested in virtualization and because nearly all implementations have a free (as in beer) option to try out its super easy to dive in head first. And diving in head first is what I intend to do!</p>

Currently I have a [VMware vSphere ESXi 5.5](https://www.vmware.com/products/vsphere/) host running with 5 Linux virtual machines and a Windows Server 2012 virtual machine on a desktop tower I built. It's reasonably fast with an Intel Core i5-4670 Quad-Core processor and 16GB of RAM. A NFS share from a [Synology DS414](https://www.synology.com/en-global/products/DS414) is being used to host the VMs as well. This is what I'm going to be referring to as my production host as the VMs currently on it are in active use for various things and I'd rather not break them. I have a second lower powered machine that I'll be using for testing and trying out new things. My intention is to one by one install and try out the various hyper-visors available on the market and write about the experience.

Getting my current production host up and running was fairly straight forward with no real issues. Granted it is a fairly simple setup and doesn't implement any of the more complex (and paid) ESXi features. It's very stable, and in some ways boring, which is exactly what you want in a production machine. However, it doesn't provide many learning opportunities or the ability to try out new things; this is where the new dev box will be coming in to play. I haven't decided which hyper-visor to start with yet but currently it is looking like XenServer or Hyper-V will be first up. Both are established products and have similar feature sets. [XenServer](http://xenserver.org) is open-source and freely available with Citrix providing enterprise support if required. [Hyper-V](http://www.microsoft.com/en-us/server-cloud/solutions/virtualization.aspx) is produced by Microsoft and is available in two forms: a bare-metal free server or as part of Windows Server 2012.  The bare-metal server is the same as VMware's ESXi whereby the host itself does not have a full OS installed.  If you go the Windows Server route you would purchase and install a regular copy of Windows Server and add Hyper-V as a component after the fact.

I'll outline the dev box setup in part 2 as well the various things I'll be trying out with each product. Hopefully this will provide a somewhat standard approach to each product to get a good feel for where various strengths and weaknesses lie.

[Click here for Part 2!]({% post_url 2015-01-25-part-2-laying-the-virtual-groundwork %})